docs: add docs for `preloadRouteComponents` (#9607)
nuxt/framework: docs/content/1.docs/3.api/3.utils/preload-route-components.md

---
title: "preloadRouteComponents"
---

# `preloadComponents`

`preloadRouteComponent` allows you to manually preload individual pages in your Nuxt app.

> > Preloading routes loads the components of a given route that the user will naviagate to very soon. This ensures that the components are available earlier and less likely to block the navigation, improving performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Preloading routes loads the components of a given route that the user might navigate to in future. This ensures that the components are available earlier and less likely to block the navigation, improving performance.
```

> ::Alert

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::alert
```

> Nuxt already automaticlly preload the nessecary routes if you're using `NuxtLink` component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nuxt already automatically preloads the necessary routes if you're using `NuxtLink` component.
```

::
::ReadMore{link="/docs/api/components/nuxt-link"}
::

## Example

Preload a route when using `navigateTo`.

```ts

> await preloadRouteComponents('/dashboard')

Reviewer: I would advise not blocking a component render with `preloadRouteComponents`
```suggestion
preloadRouteComponents('/dashboard')
```
